[Applause]
[Music]
hi I'm Bonnie Franklin and in a very
short time you are going to be able to
tap dance
I started tap dancing at 9 years of age
on the Colgate Comedy Hour with a great
Donald O'Connor and I started teaching
tap at 12 so now I have the chance to
teach you see I really hate to exercise
I find it incredibly boring and
repetitive but I love to tap tap dancing
doesn't feel like exercise but your legs
and your cardiovascular system your
whole body as well as your mind is
exercised without the feeling that
you've worked and in the bargain you're
going to learn all the steps you ever
heard about the time step the waltz clog
the soft shoe shim-sham shuffle off to
Buffalo and the terrific thing is you
can learn at your own pace you can
rewind review repeat as many times as
you need to or as you want to everyone
learns at different speeds some steps
will seem easy some more difficult so
I'm you're gonna learn quickly others it
gonna take a while but nobody cares
we're doing something that can perhaps
fulfill fantasies and at the same time
make us feel energized and terrific I
don't want you to get frustrated you
will get it
it always takes a while for the brain to
transfer the message into the body now
you have a lot of options you can start
in soft shoes just to get the feel of it
or put taps on your most comfortable
shoes you can use a tap boarder have the
lumberyard cut you the right size
plywood for your room you can even learn
the dances on carpet you can learn along
with me or you can learn with and help
teach your kids you can invite friends
over once or twice a week and and have a
class with me you can dance every day a
little at a time or set your own
schedule
choosing a section of the tape as your
lesson of the day a week I know that you
will feel a sense of accomplishment and
buoyancy and joy at least I hope so to
quote the legendary tap dancer honey
Kohl's I've never seen a sad tap dancer
so have fun
shall we dance pull over a chair you're
gonna use it for balance now we're gonna
start out easy warm up the knees and the
body and the ankles so you're gonna be
ready to tap I want you to keep your
feet parallel your back straight bend
your knees and straighten them that's
all see a lot of tap is done with bent
knees I want you to first go down 2 and
up 2 down 2 up 2 down 2 and up 2 up on
your toes and down to hold onto that
chair for balance are you ready ok ready
and down 2 up 2 good down 2
take it easy and down two up to and I'm
on your toes keep your back straight
down to down to make sure your knees are
right over your feet down two up to
good down two up two and up on your toes
and downton I want you to go all the way
down now and up to up on your toes good
down to all the way down again down - up
- and up on your toes and down - now
we're gonna stretch the top part of the
body keeping the bottom half of the body
still I just want you to move the top of
your body make your body really tall
alright okay do it with me here we go
ready / - up - good / - up - again / -
too good and / - - okay you're at least
three inches taller we're gonna do ankle
rotations now this exercise is going to
loosen up the feet in tap your feet
should be controlled but relaxed and
what you're doing here is defining a
circle with your toe both outside and
inside both you need a straight hold
onto your chair for balance and let your
ankle do all of the work